docs/BECKN-003-Beckn-Protocol-Communication.md, before:

# BECKN-003:Beckn Protocol Communication

## Category
Communication

## Published on
December 10, 2021

## Last Updated on:
July 4th, 2024

## License:
This document is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/).

![Creative Commons License](https://licensebuttons.net/l/by-nc-sa/4.0/88x31.png)

## Authors:
1. Ravi Prakash : ravi@becknprotocol.io

## Reviewers:
1. Sujith Nair : sujith@becknprotocol.io
2. Pramod Varma : pramod@ekstep.org
3. Venkatraman Mahadevan : venkatramanm@gmail.com

# Abstract
Communication on beckn enabled networks is server-to-server. Server-to-server means that communication between any two systems on a beckn network does not involve the client application (like the website or the mobile app). The client is thus free to render the data in whatever form chosen by the product. 

Secondly, all communication is asynchronous. Asynchronous API calls do not block (or wait) for the response to return from the receiver server in the same session. This is done to replicate real-world behaviour of economic transactions across various domains and use cases. For example, a hotel booking confirmation request does not _always_ get a response in the same session. Sometimes the customer needs to wait for 24 hours or more to receive a confirmation. Sometimes the provider needs to send information to the consumer without them explicitly requesting it like in the case of a driver cancelling a confirmed ride before pickup. Such asynchronocity avoids the BAP continously polling the BPP until it receives a status update. Instead, an immediate acknowledgment is sent to the BAP in the same session and the actual response from the BPP is in the form of a callback API call to the BAP. The above two features provide a remarkable advantage as all sorts of innovations are possible in the application layer due to the experience layer being unbundled from the session and presentation layer of the application.

# Introduction
A beckn enabled network has multiple entities communicating with each other via standard protocol APIs. The following types of communication are possible.

1. BAP and BG
2. BAP and BPP
3. BG and BPP
4. BAP and Registry
5. BPP and Registry
6. BG and Registry

All API calls between any two entities on the beckn network are asynchronous. Meaning, an API call from a BAP server (sender) to a BPP server (receiver) does not expect an informational response from a BPP in the same session. The immediate response in the same session is merely an acknowledgement or ACK which basically means, “_Hey, I have received your request and it looks okay during validation of the input. Let me call you back when I have the details you need_”. The actual response is sent later in the form of a standard callback API which the sender is required to implement. 

# Communication Protocol Between 2 Entities

The sequence diagram of a typical beckn protocol API is shown in Figure 1. For example, let’s say X is the sender and Y is the receiver, and the API being called is **search.**

In most cases, the sender will call the API first and the receiver will respond immediately with an ACK and close the session. After an arbitrary period of time (which is dependent on the processing of the message), the receiver will respond with an API callback to the sender. The name of the callback API is the name of the sender API with an “on_” prefix. For example, if the request API is called “**search**” then the associated callback API will be “**on_search**”.

<figure>
<img align="center" src="https://github.com/beckn/protocol-specifications/blob/master/docs/images/Async-Communication.png">
<figcaption align="center">Figure 1</figcaption>
</figure>

# Communication Protocol for Search Via Beckn Gateway

Most communication in a beckn enabled network involves two entities. But sometimes, an intermediate entity like a Beckn Gateway (BG) is involved. In those cases, the flow of communication should be as follows.

If the address of the BPP is not specified in the context of the API call, then the BAP should call the BG and the BG may multicast this API to multiple BPPs. 
The BPPs synchronously respond with ACKs. The BPPs then asynchronously call the **on_search** API which is sent back to the BAP. 

<figure>
<img src="https://github.com/beckn/protocol-specifications/blob/master/docs/images/Search-Multicast.png">
<figcaption align="center">Figure 2:</figcaption>
</figure>

# Communication Protocol for Search Via Beckn Gateway with Registry Lookup

Sometimes the BG may query a Registry via the **lookup** API to get the BPP addresses and then multicast the message to the BPPs. See Figure 3.
<figure>
<img src="https://github.com/beckn/protocol-specifications/blob/master/docs/images/Search-Multicast-with-Reg.png">
<figcaption align = "center">Figure 3:Search with Registry Lookup</figcaption>
</figure>

# Communication Protocol during status updates

During the status and on_status calls, the BAP first initiates the transaction by calling **status**. The BAP responds with an **on_status **API call to the BPP just like any other beckn API. However, in the case of the **status** API call, the BPP can asynchronously send multiple **on_status** calls to the BAP after the first call. The BAP does not have to poll the BPP to get an on_status callback. See Figure 4.

<figure>
<img src="https://github.com/beckn/protocol-specifications/blob/master/docs/images/Status.png">
<figcaption align = "center">Figure 4</figcaption>
</figure>

Commit message:

Change mimetype to mime_type 	- changed the structure of the docs under doc/ folder. 	- added doc history links

docs/BECKN-003-Beckn-Protocol-Communication.md, after:

# BECKN-003:Beckn Protocol Communication

## License:
This document is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/).

![Creative Commons License](https://licensebuttons.net/l/by-nc-sa/4.0/88x31.png)

## Category
Communication

## Published on
December 10, 2021

## Last Updated on:
July 4th, 2024

## History: 
Click on this [link](https://github.com/beckn/protocol-specifications/commits/core-1.2-release/docs/BECKN-003-Beckn-Protocol-Communication.md) to view the history of changes to this document

## Issues:
To view issues related to this document, click on this [link](https://github.com/beckn/protocol-specifications/issues?q=is%3Aissue+label%3ABECKN-003)

## Discussions:
To view discussions related to this document, click on this [link](https://github.com/beckn/protocol-specifications/discussions?discussions_q=label%3ABECKN-003)

## Authors:
1. [Ravi Prakash](https://github.com/ravi-prakash-v)

## Reviewers:
1. [Sujith Nair](https://github.com/sjthnrk)
2. [Pramod Varma](https://github.com/pramodkvarma)
3. [Venkatraman Mahadevan](https://github.com/venkatramanm)

# Abstract
Communication on beckn enabled networks is server-to-server. Server-to-server means that communication between any two systems on a beckn network does not involve the client application (like the website or the mobile app). The client is thus free to render the data in whatever form chosen by the product. 

Secondly, all communication is asynchronous. Asynchronous API calls do not block (or wait) for the response to return from the receiver server in the same session. This is done to replicate real-world behaviour of economic transactions across various domains and use cases. For example, a hotel booking confirmation request does not _always_ get a response in the same session. Sometimes the customer needs to wait for 24 hours or more to receive a confirmation. Sometimes the provider needs to send information to the consumer without them explicitly requesting it like in the case of a driver cancelling a confirmed ride before pickup. Such asynchronocity avoids the BAP continously polling the BPP until it receives a status update. Instead, an immediate acknowledgment is sent to the BAP in the same session and the actual response from the BPP is in the form of a callback API call to the BAP. The above two features provide a remarkable advantage as all sorts of innovations are possible in the application layer due to the experience layer being unbundled from the session and presentation layer of the application.

# Introduction
A beckn enabled network has multiple entities communicating with each other via standard protocol APIs. The following types of communication are possible.

1. BAP and BG
2. BAP and BPP
3. BG and BPP
4. BAP and Registry
5. BPP and Registry
6. BG and Registry

All API calls between any two entities on the beckn network are asynchronous. Meaning, an API call from a BAP server (sender) to a BPP server (receiver) does not expect an informational response from a BPP in the same session. The immediate response in the same session is merely an acknowledgement or ACK which basically means, “_Hey, I have received your request and it looks okay during validation of the input. Let me call you back when I have the details you need_”. The actual response is sent later in the form of a standard callback API which the sender is required to implement. 

# Communication Protocol Between 2 Entities

The sequence diagram of a typical beckn protocol API is shown in Figure 1. For example, let’s say X is the sender and Y is the receiver, and the API being called is **search.**

In most cases, the sender will call the API first and the receiver will respond immediately with an ACK and close the session. After an arbitrary period of time (which is dependent on the processing of the message), the receiver will respond with an API callback to the sender. The name of the callback API is the name of the sender API with an “on_” prefix. For example, if the request API is called “**search**” then the associated callback API will be “**on_search**”.

<figure>
<img align="center" src="https://github.com/beckn/protocol-specifications/blob/master/docs/images/Async-Communication.png">
<figcaption align="center">Figure 1</figcaption>
</figure>

# Communication Protocol for Search Via Beckn Gateway

Most communication in a beckn enabled network involves two entities. But sometimes, an intermediate entity like a Beckn Gateway (BG) is involved. In those cases, the flow of communication should be as follows.

If the address of the BPP is not specified in the context of the API call, then the BAP should call the BG and the BG may multicast this API to multiple BPPs. 
The BPPs synchronously respond with ACKs. The BPPs then asynchronously call the **on_search** API which is sent back to the BAP. 

<figure>
<img src="https://github.com/beckn/protocol-specifications/blob/master/docs/images/Search-Multicast.png">
<figcaption align="center">Figure 2:</figcaption>
</figure>

# Communication Protocol for Search Via Beckn Gateway with Registry Lookup

Sometimes the BG may query a Registry via the **lookup** API to get the BPP addresses and then multicast the message to the BPPs. See Figure 3.
<figure>
<img src="https://github.com/beckn/protocol-specifications/blob/master/docs/images/Search-Multicast-with-Reg.png">
<figcaption align = "center">Figure 3:Search with Registry Lookup</figcaption>
</figure>

# Communication Protocol during status updates

During the status and on_status calls, the BAP first initiates the transaction by calling **status**. The BAP responds with an **on_status **API call to the BPP just like any other beckn API. However, in the case of the **status** API call, the BPP can asynchronously send multiple **on_status** calls to the BAP after the first call. The BAP does not have to poll the BPP to get an on_status callback. See Figure 4.

<figure>
<img src="https://github.com/beckn/protocol-specifications/blob/master/docs/images/Status.png">
<figcaption align = "center">Figure 4</figcaption>
</figure>
